{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww29700\viewh17920\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Plan: Geometry-Aware Koopman + HHL Pipeline for Rapid Automotive Aerodynamic\
Analysis\
Objective\
\uc0\u61623  Accelerate aerodynamic shape evaluation by combining geometry-aware flow\
modeling with Koopman operator linearization and a quantum-inspired solver\
(HHL). The goal is to screen hundreds to thousands of candidate car designs in the\
time it normally takes to simulate one, identifying optimal body shapes dramatically\
faster. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
Problem Statement\
\uc0\u61623  Traditional approach bottlenecks: Current automotive CFD design is limited by\
parametric geometries and expensive simulations. Only ~10\'9650 designs can be\
tested per cycle due to HPC run times (hours per design), meaning many promising\
topologies are never explored. The result: suboptimal designs and missed\
opportunities for drag reduction. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
Dataset Integration Strategy (Steady + Transient)\
\uc0\u61623  Primary Dataset (Steady-State): DrivAerNet++ \'96 a published large-scale car\
aerodynamics dataset (~4,000 3D car shapes and ~8,000 RANS simulations) provides\
geometry diversity and steady-state CFD results (velocity &amp; pressure fields) for each\
shape. All cases share highway conditions (Re ~3\'965\'d710^6, incompressible flow) and\
known outputs (drag Cd, lift Cl) for validation. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  Supplementary Dataset (Transient): Ahmed body wake (and/or similar canonical\
unsteady flows) \'96 a simple bluff-body case with well-known vortex shedding\
behavior. This small transient CFD dataset (e.g. from an OpenFOAM simulation or\
literature) provides time-resolved snapshots to train the Koopman operator (e.g.\
capturing a Von K\'e1rm\'e1n vortex street pattern). It serves to validate and tune the\
EDMD/Koopman implementation before applying it to full car shapes.\
[Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  Normalization &amp; Alignment: All data are made dimensionless and scaled\
consistently. Using the same reference velocity, length (e.g. vehicle length or wake\
cylinder diameter), and fluid properties ensures Reynolds number and other\
nondimensional parameters align across datasets. This allows fusing steady and\
unsteady data: steady RANS fields supply a broad range of geometries, and transient\
flows supply dynamic modes. Pre-validation is performed by checking known metrics\
(e.g. baseline Cd of DrivAer, Strouhal frequency for Ahmed) to ensure the combined\
dataset is physically consistent and accurate.\
End-to-End Methodology &amp; Pipeline\
\uc0\u61623  Overview: The pipeline transforms high-fidelity nonlinear CFD into a reduced linear\
form solvable in (simulated) quantum speed, then predicts aerodynamic metrics for\
rapid design iteration. Key stages:\
\uc0\u61623  Geometry Representation: Topology-aware geometry handling uses Constructive\
Solid Geometry (CSG) primitives (body shell, spoiler, diffuser, etc.) to parameterize car\
shapes. This ensures a consistent representation across designs and aids applying\
physics constraints (e.g. realistic dimensions and smoothness). The output\
geometries (STL meshes) feed a meshing and simulation pipeline (OpenFOAM RANS,\
which is reused from prior work) to produce flow fields. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope |\
Txt], [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt] [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  Koopman/Strouhal Analysis: For representative shapes (or the canonical bluff body),\
gather time-series flow snapshots and apply Extended Dynamic Mode\
Decomposition (EDMD) to approximate the Koopman operator. This yields\
\
eigenfunctions and eigenvalues describing the flow\'92s dominant modes. In practice, it\
identifies key unsteady phenomena (e.g. vortex shedding behind blunt bodies) by\
computing their frequency (Strouhal number) and spatial mode shapes. For example,\
a stable St (\uc0\u8776 0.2) indicates a classic von K\'e1rm\'e1n vortex street pattern in the wake.\
These insights confirm the periodic structures are captured correctly.\
[Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt] [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt], [en.wikipedia.org]\
[blog.trueg...ometry.com]\
\uc0\u61623  Linear System Lifting: The EDMD step produces a linear state-transition model of\
the flow: x_\{t+1\} \uc0\u8776  A\'b7x_t. This Koopman matrix A (usually high-dimensional but often\
sparse) linearly propagates the flow state in a lifted space. The b vector (right-hand\
side) represents the flow state at the next time step; effectively we have A x = b as a\
linear system approximating Navier\'96Stokes. The condition number \uc0\u954  of A is assessed\
\'96 if moderate (\uc0\u954  ~ 10\'96100 for laminar/periodic flows), it\'92s suitable for quantum solving; if\
extremely high (turbulent flows), note in limitations. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  HHL Solver Application: Use a Quantum-inspired solver (Harrow-Hassidim-Lloyd\
algorithm) to solve A\'b7x = b for x (flow field solution) rapidly. Here HHL is run in classical\
simulation mode via libraries like Qiskit or PennyLane. Conceptually, HHL provides an\
exponential speedup (solving in O(log N) time steps) under ideal conditions \'96 enabling\
near real-time resolution of the linear flow equations. In practice, this stage checks that\
the solution for x (which encodes velocity/pressure field or derived aerodynamic forces)\
can be obtained much faster than traditional linear algebra solvers, albeit the actual\
hardware speedup is conceptual. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  Aerodynamic Outputs: From the solved flow state (via HHL), compute target\
aerodynamic metrics, primarily drag (Cd) and lift (Cl) coefficients, and possibly flow\
rates or pressure field as needed. Because the flow is solved in near real-time after\
the Koopman transform, Cd and Cl can be estimated for each candidate shape within\
seconds. This unlocks fast design iteration (e.g. coupling with an optimization loop\
such as a genetic algorithm, though that is outside this summary\'92s scope). All computed\
results are later compared with ground-truth CFD for validation.\
[Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
Physics Constraints &amp; Enforcement\
\uc0\u61623  Consistent Flow Regime: All simulations and data adhere to incompressible, high-\
Reynolds-number conditions consistent with automotive aerodynamics (e.g. Re\
~10^6; Mach ~0.1 so compressibility negligible). Turbulence model is fixed (k\'96\uc0\u969  SST\
RANS) across both steady and transient data to ensure apples-to-apples physics. This\
uniform baseline (same Re, Prandtl number ~0.7 (air), etc.) ensures the learned\
Koopman linearization and subsequent solution remain physically valid for the\
intended regime. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  Boundary Conditions &amp; Constraints: Each geometry\'92s CFD simulation uses the\
same boundary conditions (uniform inlet velocity, no-slip walls, etc.) to avoid spurious\
differences. A physics guardrail system (adapted from previous work) monitors\
conditions like Re, Mach, geometric validity, ensuring no shape violates the\
assumptions (e.g. extremely large aspect ratios or flow regimes outside training data).\
These constraints are applied at the design generation stage and in any surrogate\
model predictions to maintain physical realism. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
Validation Strategy &amp; Limitations\
\uc0\u61623  Ground-Truth Comparison: For validation, compare pipeline predictions against\
actual CFD results. For a subset of designs (from DrivAerNet++), predict Cd and Cl via\
the Koopman-HHL pipeline and compare to the dataset\'92s ground-truth values. Ensure\
\
error margins are acceptable. Similarly, confirm the Koopman modes for the Ahmed\
body match published results (e.g. known Strouhal frequency, wake mode shape),\
establishing confidence in the method. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  Hybrid Data Approach: Recognize the plan uses steady-state and transient data\
differently \'96 steady RANS data trains the geometry\'96performance surrogate, whereas\
transient snapshots train the Koopman model. This separation means unsteady flow\
patterns are learned from simplified cases and assumed to generalize to full car\
shapes (limitation to be acknowledged). If DrivAerNet++ lacks time-resolved data,\
ensure the additional transient simulations (Ahmed/cylinder flow) sufficiently capture the\
dominant unsteady phenomena relevant to vehicle aerodynamics.\
[Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  HHL Realism &amp; Conditioning: Note that HHL speedup is theoretical in our classical\
simulation context \'96 the pipeline is \'93quantum-ready\'94 rather than delivering immediate\
runtime gains. We emphasize the feasibility and scaling of the approach on future\
quantum hardware. Meanwhile, carefully assess the matrix condition number (\uc0\u954 ): if \u954 \
is too high (&gt;&gt;1000, as might occur in complex turbulent flows), the HHL algorithm\'92s\
advantage diminishes. In the report, we will honestly discuss this and possibly\
demonstrate HHL on a well-conditioned case (e.g. laminar cylinder flow) to illustrate the\
potential speedup. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  Output &amp; Readout Limitations: Acknowledge that even if HHL can solve A x = b,\
reading out full flow fields from a quantum state can be costly, potentially offsetting\
some speedup in practice. We will mitigate overclaiming by focusing on aerodynamic\
metrics output directly (like Cd, Cl, which can be crafted as observables in the\
simulation to extract with fewer measurements). All limitations and assumptions (steady\
vs transient mixing, classical HHL simulation, etc.) will be clearly stated in the final\
deliverables to maintain scientific honesty. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
End State &amp; Deliverables\
\uc0\u61623  Completed Pipeline &amp; Demonstration: The outcome is an integrated pipeline\
(geometry generation + Koopman + HHL + aerodynamics computation) that is tested\
and validated. It will demonstrate evaluating ~1,000 design variants on a laptop-\
scale simulation in the time one high-fidelity CFD run would normally take, illustrating a\
~10\'96100\'d7 speedup in design exploration. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt],\
[Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
\uc0\u61623  Executive Outputs: Deliverables include a concise research report (targeting journals\
like npj Computational Materials) documenting the objective, methodology, and results.\
This report will feature key findings: e.g., confirmation of the \'93topology gap\'94 (novel\
shapes found that parametric design missed), quantum-simulation time\
improvements, and Cd reduction achieved on best discovered shape(s). Additionally,\
all supporting components (CSG geometry module, EDMD implementation, HHL solver\
scripts, etc.) will be fully developed and integrated, ready for potential publication and\
further experimental use. The end state is a proven, physics-constrained \'93Koopman +\
quantum solve\'94 workflow that bridges classical CFD and quantum computing\
techniques for a new level of speed and scale in aerodynamic design optimization.\
[Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt] [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt],\
[Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
Sources\
Convert to\
Word\
\
PDF\
Infographic\
Provide your feedback on BizChat\
You said:\
do you think it is novel and ground breaking\
Researcher said:\
Researcher\
Reasoning completed in 48 steps\
Novelty &amp; Significance of the Proposed CFD\'96Koopman\'96HHL Pipeline\
Overview: The proposed pipeline integrates geometry-aware design innovation with\
advanced physics modeling. It couples generative car-body design via constructive solid\
geometry (CSG), a Koopman operator (DMD/EDMD) flow linearization, and a quantum-\
inspired solver (HHL). We assess its novelty against existing work in four key areas: (a)\
automotive CFD surrogates, (b) Koopman/DMD for aerodynamics, (c) quantum linear solvers\
for CFD, and (d) steady\'96transient data fusion.\
(a) Automotive CFD Surrogates: Novelty vs Prior Work\
\uc0\u61623  **Prior Art: Data-driven aerodynamic surrogates are well-established. For instance, the\
DrivAerNet and DrivAerNet++ projects (MIT, 2024\'9625) provide thousands of\
parameterized car shapes with CFD-derived drag and lift (fastback, notchback, etc.) for\
training ML predictive models. Additionally, generative and surrogate modeling\
workflows (e.g., MIT\'92s DeCoDe Lab, 2023 study) have explored deep learning to\
predict car drag for thousands of shapes to guide design. However, these efforts\
largely remain within parametric or shape database boundaries (e.g., resizing,\
small variations of existing shapes). [arxiv.org] [decode.mit.edu], [decode.mit.edu]\
[decode.mit.edu]\
\uc0\u61623  **Proposed Pipeline\'92s Novelty: Expanding the design search beyond known\
topologies. The pipeline applies a CSG-based \'93topology search\'94 to create\
fundamentally new car body shapes beyond the standard parametric design space. This\
approach addresses the \'93topology gap\'94 \'96 the inability of parametric design to explore\
radically different geometries. No known prior automotive aerodynamics study has used\
CSG with a Catalan grammar to generate diverse topologies (adding/subtracting body\
parts) and then optimize them, making this a first-of-kind integration. The pipeline also\
reuses an existing graph neural-network surrogate (from prior work, \'93Paper 1\'94, on a\
different domain) for rapid performance evaluation of thousands of designs. In summary,\
the synergy of CSG-based shape synthesis plus AI surrogate for aerodynamic\
performance is a novel step forward. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
(b) Koopman/DMD in Aerodynamic Flow Modeling: Novelty vs Prior Work\
\uc0\u61623  Prior Art: Dynamic Mode Decomposition (DMD) and its extended Koopman-operator\
variants are widely used in fluid dynamics research to extract coherent flow structures\
and oscillation frequencies. For example, Ahani &amp; Uddin (2025) applied DMD to the\
classic Ahmed body (simplified car shape) at Re ~7.7\'d710^5, isolating wake modes in\
distinct frequency ranges (Strouhal St \uc0\u8776  0.07 for \'93bubble pumping\'94 and ~0.13\'960.17 for\
vortex shedding). These analysis-focused studies, however, are typically limited to\
understanding one fixed geometry\'92s flow behavior, not to rapid evaluation of many\
design candidates. [mdpi.com] [mdpi.com], [mdpi.com]\
\uc0\u61623  Proposed Pipeline\'92s Novelty: Using Koopman operator methods as a design\
surrogate for aerodynamic evaluation in near real-time. The pipeline\'92s EDMD-based\
Koopman linearization is employed to transform nonlinear aerodynamics around a given\
\
shape into a linear system (A\'b7x = b), enabling fast solution. While Koopman/DMD itself\
is established in aerodynamics research, embedding it into a multi-design\
optimization loop is new. The pipeline\'92s idea is to leverage DMD/Koopman not just for\
understanding one flow, but to help accelerate predicting performance (Cd, Cl) for\
multiple shapes. This is a creative reuse of DMD: from analysis tool to surrogate\
model mechanism. A key challenge here is ensuring the method works for turbulent\
automotive flows \'96 which the pipeline plans to address via careful selection of\
Koopman observables and a validation on simpler flows (e.g., the Ahmed body wake)\
before scaling up. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt], [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
(c) Quantum Linear Solvers for CFD: Novelty vs Prior Work\
\uc0\u61623  Prior Art: The concept of applying Harrow\'96Hassidim\'96Lloyd (HHL) or related quantum\
linear solvers to fluid simulation has been broached in recent research. Ye et al.\
(Physics of Fluids, 2024) introduced a hybrid quantum-classical CFD framework,\
transforming fluid equations into linear systems and solving via HHL and variational\
quantum linear solvers (VQLS) with promising accuracy (\uc0\u8764 0.1% error) on unsteady\
cylinder flows and turbulence around an aircraft. Their approach used subspace\
reduction to handle large linear systems (simulating up to ~9.4 million grid cells) on\
limited quantum resources. Moreover, companies like Quanscient (2026) have\
demonstrated a 15-step quantum Lattice Boltzmann simulation with an obstacle on\
real quantum hardware, heralded as \'93one of the most realistic quantum CFD\
simulations to date\'94. However, these efforts are at an early conceptual stage \'96\
quantum speedups in CFD remain theoretical until larger fault-tolerant quantum\
computers are available. [pubs.aip.org] [thequantum...nsider.com],\
[thequantum...nsider.com]\
\uc0\u61623  Proposed Pipeline\'92s Novelty: First integration of a quantum-solver concept into an\
aerodynamic design pipeline. The novelty here is one of \'93visionary synthesis\'94 rather\
than immediate technical discovery. No prior system links generative car design\
with a quantum-ready flow solver, so the pipeline is breaking new ground by\
presenting CFD\'96quantum integration as a future-ready concept. It is a forward-looking\
novelty: practically, the pipeline will simulate HHL on classical hardware (to validate\
correctness and quantify speed-up potential). The results will be framed as \'93quantum-\
ready\'94 rather than delivering real-time quantum advantage today. This is an unusual but\
innovative coupling \'96 effectively anticipating quantum computing\'92s maturation by\
designing a workflow that could exploit it when available. The challenge is to avoid\
overpromising: HHL\'92s exponential speedup requires well-conditioned matrices (\uc0\u954  &lt;&lt;\
1000), so for realistic turbulent flows (which might have high \uc0\u954 ) the advantage may be\
small. Top-tier journals will recognize the bold integration and demonstration of\
HHL for automotive flows as novel, but they will also expect transparent caveats\
around the quantum component\'92s practical limits. [Paper3_Aut..._HHL_Scope | Txt]\
(d) Steady vs Transient Data Fusion: Novelty vs Prior Work\
\uc0\u61623  Prior Art: Hybridizing different fidelity data for aerodynamic models is an emerging\
trend. Multi-fidelity surrogate frameworks combine cheaper, lower-fidelity models\
with expensive high-fidelity simulations to improve predictions under limited data\
budgets. For example, Yang et al. (2026) developed a multi-fidelity surrogate for UAV\
aerodynamics that mixes panel-method (fast, low accuracy) with RANS (slow, high\
accuracy) data via transfer learning. However, these methods primarily merge steady-\
state data of varying fidelity and seldom (if ever) consider mixing steady vs transient\
flow datasets in one model. The typical assumption is that training data must be\
\
consistently defined (all steady or all unsteady) or physically similar. [mdpi.com],\
[mdpi.com] [mdpi.com]\
\uc0\u61623  Proposed Pipeline\'92s Novelty: Combining a broad steady-state dataset with targeted\
transient data to enhance model fidelity. The pipeline merges DrivAerNet++\'92s steady\
RANS snapshots (for thousands of shapes) with transient flows (e.g., Ahmed body\
wakes) to inform the Koopman operator linearization about time-dependent\
aerodynamics. This strategy is fairly novel: to our knowledge, no published surrogate\
or reduced-order model explicitly fuses static and dynamic CFD data in this manner. In\
practice, the pipeline\'92s approach uses transient flows to tune and validate the\
EDMD/Koopman model (ensuring it captures known vortex-shedding patterns\'97like\
the Von K\'e1rm\'e1n street and Strouhal ~0.2 in bluff-body flows). Meanwhile, the large\
steady dataset provides the geometric diversity needed for generalization. This hybrid\
training approach (steady shapes + unsteady physics) is a creative solution to data\
limitations (since DrivAerNet++ itself may lack fully time-resolved data). A potential\
limitation is that RANS \'93snapshots\'94 are not true unsteady flows\'97so to apply EDMD\
meaningfully, the team may need to generate unsteady CFD for a subset of designs\
(increasing cost). Nevertheless, the concept of injecting real transient physics into a\
design surrogate adds a physics-grounded layer that sets this pipeline apart from\
purely data-driven surrogates.}